Logging
=======

All logging in Haymaker is performed asynchronously in a separate thread, ensuring that logging operations do not block or interfere with other actions.

Custom Logging Levels
---------------------

In addition to standard Python logging levels, Haymaker defines two custom levels:

* ``DATA`` (value 5): Very detailed information below the ``DEBUG`` level, typically used to log actual market data for low-level debugging.
* ``NOTIFY`` (value 60): Above the ``CRITICAL`` level, typically used to send live notifications to administrators focused on strategy performance rather than technical details.

These levels are not used by the framework itself but are available for strategy creators to log non-technical performance information.

Logging Configuration
---------------------

You can customize logging by defining a `logging configuration <https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.config.html#configuration-file-format>`_ in YAML format. Point Haymaker to this file by setting the ``logging_config`` configuration variable to its absolute path. This can be done via:

- A YAML configuration file (e.g., under ``logging_config``).
- Command-line option (e.g., ``-s logging_config /path/to/config.yaml``).
- Environment variable (e.g., ``HAYMAKER_LOGGING_CONFIG=/path/to/config.yaml``).

The log file location (when logging to a file) is set with the ``logging_path`` configuration variable. This specifies a subdirectory within the folder defined by the ``data_folder`` variable. If the subdirectory doesn’t exist, Haymaker creates it.

.. note::
   Both ``logging_config`` and ``logging_path`` can be set in your configuration YAML file, via CLI with ``-s``, or as environment variables prefixed with ``HAYMAKER_``.

Execution Module
----------------

By default, the Execution Module creates three loggers:

* ``haymaker``: General messages related to the framework.
* ``strategy``: Tracks signals generated by strategies. The default :class:`haymaker.block.AbstractBaseBlock` implementation logs all data sent via ``dataEvent``.
* ``broker``: Captures all :class:`ib_insync.ib.IB` events with broker messages.

Broker messages reported through ``IB.errorEvent`` are not necessarily
actionable failures. Normal execution logging classifies known actionable
messages and otherwise keeps them at debug level. Codes listed under the
top-level ``ignore_errors`` configuration key are omitted from normal logs to
avoid noise.

Set ``log_broker`` to ``true`` to enable the separate ``broker`` audit logger.
It records the raw broker event stream to ``broker.log``, including codes
omitted from normal logs.

To customize logging, copy the default configuration file and override it as needed. The default file is located at:

https://github.com/t1user/haymaker/blob/master/haymaker/logging/logging_config.yaml

- `haymaker/logging/logging_config.yaml <https://github.com/t1user/haymaker/blob/master/haymaker/logging/logging_config.yaml>`_

Dataloader Module
-----------------

The Dataloader Module creates a single logger that outputs to both stream and file.

To customize logging, copy the default configuration file and override it as needed. The default file is located at:

https://github.com/t1user/haymaker/blob/master/haymaker/logging/dataloader_logging_config.yaml
